> Al-Equal  
> IF Pro Taxonomy  
> MK, VK 07.23.20

DEPOSITS
========
Qard
----

Because demand deposits pay little if any return and *Qard al-hasana*
(benevolent loans) loans are forbidden to pay any \"stipulated
benefit\", the *Qard* mode is a popular Islamic finance structure for
demand deposits. In this design, customer deposits constitute \"loans\"
and the Islamic bank a \"borrower\" who guarantees full return of the
\"lenders\" deposits.

Critics (e.g., M.O. Farooq, Mohammad Hashim Kamali) see conflicts
between *Qard*\'s roll in demand deposits and the dictates of traditional
Islamic jurisprudence. *Qard al-Hasana loans* are intended to be acts of
charity to the needy who are allowed lenient repayment. Islamic banks,
on the other hand, are multi-million or billion dollar profit-making
institutions, and their depositor/lenders typically expect to be able to
withdraw their deposits on demand rather than be asked to be lenient
with the bank.

A further issue is that at least some conventional banks do pay a modest
interest on their demand/savings deposits, and Islamic banks often feel
a need to compete with them, finding an (at least putative) Shari'ah
compliant technique to do so. The means that has been used is *Hibah*
(literally \"gift\"), in the form of prizes, exemptions, etc., which
officially differ from the conventional banks\' interest/riba in not
being legally stipulated or time bound. Its use has nonetheless has been
attacked by at least one scholar as \"entry of riba through the back
door\".

## Sources:

1.  Farooq, Mohammad Omar (19 January 2012). \"Qard al-Hasana,
    Wadiah/Amanah and Bank Deposits: Applications and Misapplications of
    Some Concepts in Islamic Banking\". Arab Law Quarterly. 25 (2).
    SSRN 1418202.

2.  Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:253-4 \"Financial
    Stability and Payment System Report 2014. Investment accounts under
    Islamic Financial Services Act 2013\" (PDF). bnm.gov.my. Retrieved 6
    August 2016.

3.  \"Unrestricted Investment Account\". Investment and Finance. 8
    March 2013. Retrieved 6 August 2016.

4.  Magalhaes, Rodrigo; Al-Saad, Shereen (2011). \"Corporate governance
    in Islamic financial institutions: the issues surrounding
    unrestricted investment account holders\". Corporate Governance: The
    International Journal of Business in Society. 13 (1): 39--57.
    doi:10.1108/14720701311302404.

5.  Khan, What Is Wrong with Islamic Economics?, 2013: p.320

6.  Maverick, J.B. (13 June 2017). \"What is the difference between a
    demand deposit and a term deposit?\". Investopedia. Retrieved 27
    September 2017.

7.  Ziauddin Ahmad, \"Islamic Banking: The State of the Art\", IDB
    Islamic Training and Research Institute, 1994. Munawar Iqbal and
    Philip Molyneux, Thirty Years of Islamic Banking: History,
    Performance and Prospects, (Palgrave Macmillan, 2005), 41.

8.  Mohammad Hashim Kamali. Principles of Islamic Jurisprudence
    \[Islamic Texts Society, 3rd Ed., 2003\], p.45, cited in Farooq,
    Mohammad Omar (19 January 2012). \"Qard al-Hasana, Wadiah/Amanah and
    Bank Deposits: Applications and Misapplications of Some Concepts in
    Islamic Banking\". Arab Law Quarterly. 25 (2). SSRN 1418202.
