> Al-Equal  
> IF Pro Taxonomy  
> MK, VK 07.23.20

Sukuk
=====

Sukuk (Arabic: صكوك‎ ṣukūk, plural of صك ṣakk, \"legal instrument, deed,
cheque\") is the Arabic name for financial certificates, also commonly
referred to as \"sharia compliant\" bonds.
Sukuk are defined by the AAOIFI (Accounting and Auditing Organization
for Islamic Financial Institutions) as \"securities of equal
denomination representing individual ownership interests in a portfolio
of eligible existing or future assets.\"

In the classical period of Islam, Sakk (sukuk) meant any document
representing a contract or conveyance of rights, obligations or monies
done in conformity with the Shari'ah.

The term was used to refer to forms of papers representing financial
obligations originating from trade and other commercial activities in
the Islamic pre-modern period.

According to Camille Paldi, the first sukuk transaction took place in
Damascus in its Great Mosque in the 7th century AD. Muslim traders are
known to have used the cheque or ṣakk system since the time of Harun
al-Rashid (9th century) of the Abbasid Caliphate.

The modern Western word \"cheque\" appears to have been derived from
\"sakk\" (singular of sukuk), which during the Middle Ages referred to a
written agreement \"to pay for goods when they were delivered\" and was
used to \"avoid money having to be transported across dangerous
terrain\".

Sukuk were developed as an alternative to conventional bonds which are
not considered permissible by many Muslims as they pay interest and may
finance businesses involved in non-Sharia'ah-compliant activities
(gambling, alcohol, pork, etc.).

Sukuk is popularly known as an Islamic or Shari'ah compliant 'Bond'
whilst in fact, it is an asset-backed trust certificate. In its simplest
form Sukuk is a certificate evidencing ownership of an asset or its
usufruct and was developed by Shari'ah experts for the express purpose
of answering the financial world's demand for a Shari'ah compliant debt
instrument. The development of Sukuk was in response to Shari'ah
prohibition on earning returns from loan contracts which returns are
based on interest. Conventional bonds and other derivative instruments
that rely on profiting holders by providing returns based on interest
are therefore unavailable to Muslims who wish to invest in Shari'ah
compliant investments.

Sukuk securities are structured to comply with Sharia'ah by paying
profit, not interest - generally by involving a tangible asset in the
investment.

For example, Sukuk securities may have partial ownership of a property
built by the investment company (and held in a Special Purpose Vehicle),
so that Sukuk holders can collect the property\'s profit as rent, (which
is allowed under Islamic law).

Because they represent ownership of real assets and do not guarantee
repayment of initial investment, Sukuk resemble equity instruments, but
like a bond, and unlike equity, regular payments cease upon their
expiration. However, most Sukuk are \"asset-based\" rather than
\"asset-backed\" - their assets are not truly owned by their Special
Purpose Vehicle, and their holders have recourse to the originator if
there is a shortfall in payments.

Different types of Sukuk are based on different structures of Islamic
contracts (Murabaha, Ijara, Istisna, Musharaka, Istithmar, etc.)
depending on the project the Sukuk is financing.

According to the State of the Global Islamic Economy Report 2016/17, of
the \$2.004 trillion of assets being managed in a Shari'ah compliant
manner in 2014, \$342 billion were Sukuk, being made up of 2,354 Sukuk
issues.

In common usage outside of Arabic-speaking countries, the word \"Sukuk\"
is often used both as singular as well as plural. (In the Arabic
language, \"sukuk\" is plural, \"sakk\" is singular.)

## History

In the classical period of Islam, Sakk (sukuk) meant any document
representing a contract or conveyance of rights, obligations or monies
done in conformity with the Shari'ah.

The term was used to refer to forms of papers representing financial
obligations originating from trade and other commercial activities in
the Islamic pre-modern period.

According to Camille Paldi, the first sukuk transaction took place in
Damascus in its Great Mosque in the 7th century AD. Muslim traders are
known to have used the cheque or ṣakk system since the time of Harun
al-Rashid (9th century) of the Abbasid Caliphate.

The modern Western word \"cheque\" appears to have been derived from
\"sakk\" (singular of sukuk), which during the Middle Ages referred to a
written agreement \"to pay for goods when they were delivered\" and was
used to \"avoid money having to be transported across dangerous
terrain\".

## Modern

Answering a need to provide short and medium term instruments so that
balance sheets of Islamic financial institutions could be more liquid,
the Fiqh academy of the OIC (Organization of Islamic Countries)
legitimized the use of sukuk in February 1988.

In 1990 one of the first contemporary sukuk - worth RM125 million - were
issued by Malaysia Shell MDS Sdn Bhd, on the basis of Bai\' Bithaman
Ajil.

There were no other sukuk issued until 2000 when the market began to
take off.

In 2000, the government of Sudan issued domestic sovereign short-term
Sukuk worth 77 million Sudanese pounds on the basis of Musharaka.

In 2001, the Sukuk market went international with the issuance of the
first US-dollar-denominated Ijara Sukuk, worth \$100 million by the
Central Bank of Bahrain.

Since then many sovereign and corporate Sukuk issues have been offered
in various jurisdictions.

To standardize the growing market, the AAOIF issued \"Shari'ah Standard
No.17\" on \'Investment Sukuk\' in May 2003. It became effective
starting 1 January 2004.

### Industry

International Sukuk Issuance

2007 \$13.8 billion

2008 \$2.14 billion

2009 \$7.47 billion

2010 \$5.35 billion

2011 \~\$80 billion

2012 \<\$150 billion

2013 \>\$120 billion\[25\]\[24\]

2014 \~\$130 billion

2015 \>\$100 billion

2016 \$72.9 billion

SOURCES:

International Islamic Financial Market Reports

Forbes

As of early 2017, there were US\$328 billion worth of Sukuk outstanding
worldwide.

As of the end of 2016, there were about 146 US Dollar-denominated,
Islamic fixed income securities issued in the global markets, that were
investment-grade, and had a duration of at least one year.

These securities - which make up the Citi Sukuk Index - had an average
maturity of 4.54 years, and most were issued by governments.

The top four issuers by market weight - making up over 40% of the market
- were:

-   ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK;

-   PERUSAHAAN PENERBIT SBSN INDOIII;

-   SAUDI ELECTRICITY CO.;

-   SOQ SUKUK A QSC.

About 3/4 of the Sukuk market is domestic, not international.

Most Sukuk are not investment grade however, and as of 2015, there were
2,354 sukuk issues in total, including local currency denominated,
non-global market Sukuk, according to Thomson Reuters & Dinar Standard.

According to the Malaysian International Islamic Financial Centre, as of
2013 the biggest issuers of Sukuk were governments (65.6%), and the
second largest were power and utility companies (13.6%).

### Secondary market

Sukuk securities tend to be bought and held. As a result, few securities
enter the secondary market to be traded. Furthermore, only public Sukuk
are able to enter this market, as they are listed on stock exchanges.

The secondary market - whilst developing - remains a niche segment with
virtually all of the trading done at the institution level. The size of
the secondary market remains unknown, though LMC Bahrain states they
traded \$55.5 million of Sukuk in 2007.

As of July 2014 sukuk.com listed fifteen sukuk on the secondary market
for Gulf Sukuk.

## Principles

Ali Arsalan Tariq states that Islamic finance - including sukuk - is
based on a set of several prohibitions:

-   Transactions in unethical goods and services;

-   Earning returns from a loan contract (Riba/Interest);

-   Compensation-based restructuring of debts;

-   Excessive uncertainty in contracts (Gharar);

-   Gambling and chance-based games (Qimar);

-   Trading in debt contracts at discount, and;

-   Forward foreign exchange transactions.

As Shari'ah considers money to be a measuring tool for value and not an
asset in itself, it requires that one should not receive income from
money (or anything that has the genus of money) alone, as this
(simplistically, interest) is \"riba\", and forbidden. From a Sharia'ah
perspective, certificates of debt are not tradable except at their par
value (although a different view is held by some in Malaysia).

While a bond is a contractual debt obligation of the issuer to pay to
bondholders, on certain specified dates, interest and principal; a Sukuk
is a certificate giving Sukuk holders an undivided beneficial ownership
in the underlying assets. Consequently, Sukuk holders are entitled to
share in the revenues generated by the Sukuk assets as well as being
entitled to share in the proceeds of the realization of the Sukuk
assets.

### Similarities with bonds

Sukuk and bonds are sold to investors who receive a stream of payments
until the date of the maturity of the Sukuk or bond, at which time they
get their original investment (in the case of Sukuk a full payment is
not guaranteed) back.

Sukuk and bonds are intended to provide investment with less risk than
equities (such as shares of stock) and so are often used to \"balance a
portfolio\" of investment instruments.

Both Sukuk and bonds must issue a disclosure document known as a
prospectus to describe the security they are selling.

To give investors an idea of how much risk is involved in particular
Sukuk/bonds, rating agencies rate the credit worthiness of the issuers
of the Sukuk/bond.

Both Sukuk and bonds are initially sold by their issuers. After that
they (or some Sukuk and bonds) may be bought and sold by brokers and
agents, mostly on the over-the-counter (OTC) market, but are also
available on some stock exchanges around the world.

### Differences from bonds:

-   Ownership: Sukuk should indicate partial ownership of an asset.
    Bonds indicate a debt obligation;

-   Compliance: The assets that back sukuk should be compliant with
    Shari'ah. Bonds need only comply with laws of country/locality they
    are issued in;

-   Pricing: The face value of a Sukuk is priced according to the value
    of the assets backing them. Bond pricing is based mostly on credit
    rating, i.e. the issuer\'s credit worthiness;

-   Rewards and risks: Sukuk can increase in value when the assets
    increase in value. Returns from bonds correspond to fixed interest.
    (Because most bonds\' interest rates are fixed, most increase in
    value when the market interest rates fall);

-   Sales: When you sell Sukuk, you are selling ownership in the assets
    backing them. (In instances where the certificate represents a debt
    to the holder, the certificate will not be tradable on the secondary
    market and instead should be held until maturity.) But the sale of
    bonds is the sale of debt;

-   Principal: Sukuk investors (in theory) share the risk of the
    underlying asset and may not get all their initial investment (the
    face value of the Sukuk) back. The value payable to the Sukuk-holder
    on maturity should be the current market value of the assets or
    enterprise and not the principal originally invested (according to
    Taqi Usamani). Bond investors are guaranteed the return of their
    initial investment/principal, as much as the bond issuer can
    guarantee it. In practice, some Sukuk are issued with repurchase
    guarantees;

-   Conventional bonds are issued with underwriters. Sukuk underwriters
    do not usually conduct the issuance and may not be required. Sukuk
    use Special Purpose Vehicles to be the trustee/issuer of the Sukuk.

## Definitions, structure and characteristics

### Definitions

The AAOIFI (Accounting and Auditing Organization for Islamic Financial
Institutions, the body which issues standards on accounting, auditing,
governance, ethical, and Shari\'ah standards) defines Sukuk as
\"securities of equal denomination representing individual ownership
interests in a portfolio of eligible existing or future assets,\" or
\"\'certificates of equal value representing undivided shares in the
ownership of tangible assets, usufructs and services or (in the
ownership of) the assets of particular projects or special investment
activity\'.\"

The Islamic Financial Services Board defines Sukuk as \"certificates
with each Sakk representing a proportional undivided ownership right in
tangible assets, or a pool of predominantly tangible assets, or a
business venture. These assets may be in a specific project or
investment activity in accordance with Shari'ah rules and principles.

The Securities Commission of Malaysia defined Sukuk as a document or
certificate, which represents the value of an asset.

**Need**

Sharia forbids both the trading of short-term debt instruments except at
face value, and the drawing upon the established interbank money markets
(both being seen as transactions involve interest and excessive
uncertainty (Gharar)). As a consequence, prior to the development of the
Sukuk market, the balance sheets of Islamic financial institutions
tended to be highly illiquid and lacking in short and medium term
investment opportunities for their current assets.

### Structure and characteristics

Sukuk are structured in several ways.

The AAOIFI has laid down 14 different types of sukuk.

While a conventional bond is a promise to repay a loan, Sukuk constitute
partial ownership in a debt, asset, project, business or investment:

-   **Sukuk Murabaha** (debt). These Sukuk are not common because their
    payments to investors represent debt and are therefore not tradable
    or negotiable according to Shari'ah. (If diluted with other
    non-Murahaha Sukuk in a mixed portfolio they may be traded);

-   **Sukuk Al-Ijara** (asset). These are \"essentially\" rental or lease
    contracts, or conventional lease-revenue bonds. With these Sukuk,
    the borrower\'s tangible asset is \'sold\' to the financier and then
    \'leased\' back to the borrowers. The borrowers then make regular
    payments back to the financiers from the income stream generated by
    the asset. They are the most common type of Sukuk as of 2015, and
    have been described (by Faleel Jamaldeen) as well known because of
    there simplicity, tradability and ability to provide a fixed flow of
    income;

-   **Sukuk Al-Salam** (asset at a future date). In this Sukuk the SPV does
    not buy an asset but agrees to buy one at a future date in exchange
    for advance payments. The asset is then sold in the future for its
    cost plus a profit by an agent. On or before the date agreed to in
    the contract, the seller delivers the asset to the agent who sells
    the asset and passes the proceeds (minus agent expenses/fees) on to
    the SPV, which in turn distributes the proceeds to the Sukuk
    holders. Sukuk Al-Salam are (at least usually) used to support a
    company\'s short term liquidity requirements. Holders receive
    payment not with a regular flow of income, but at maturity - similar
    to a zero-coupon bond. An example of this kind of Sukuk are 91-day
    CBB Sukuk Al-Salam issued by Central Bank of Bahrain;

-   **Sukuk Al-Istisna** (project). These Sukuk are complex and cannot be
    traded in the secondary market or sold to a third party for less
    than its face value;

-   **Sukuk Al-Musharaka** (business). These Sukuk holders are also the
    owners of the originator issuing the Sukuk and participate in the
    decision-making. These Sukuk can be traded in the secondary market;

-   **Sukuk Al-Istithmar** (investment).

The most commonly used sukuk structures replicate the cash flows of
conventional bonds. Such structures are listed on exchanges, commonly
the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and London Stock Exchange in Europe, and
made tradable through conventional organizations like Euroclear or
Clearstream.

A key technique to achieve capital protection without amounting to a
loan is a binding promise to repurchase certain assets; e.g. in the case
of Sukuk Al-Ijara, by the issuer. In the meantime a rent is being paid,
which is often benchmarked to an interest rate (LIBOR is the most common
though its use is criticized by some Shari'ah Scholars).

The most accepted structure, which is tradable, is thereafter the Sukuk
Al-Ijara.

Debt certificates can only be bought before the finance occurs and then
held to maturity, from an Islamic perspective. This is important for
debt trading at market value without incurring the prohibited riba
(interest on money).

## Issuing and payment process

Step-by-step process of issuing a Sukuk based on an asset:

1.  The Originator - a business firm requiring capital - creates a
    special purpose vehicle (SPV), an independent entity and structures.
    The SPV protects the Sukuk assets from creditors if the Originator
    has financial troubles. It specifies what asset or activity the
    Sukuk will support, how large the issuance of Sukuk will be, their
    face amounts, interest rates, maturity date. SPV are often located
    in \"tax-efficient jurisdictions\" such as Bahrain, Luxembourg or
    the Cayman Islands;

2.  The SPV issues the Sukuk offering it for sale to investors with an
    agreement spelling out the relationship between Obligator and Sukuk
    holders (depending on the type of Sukuk this can be lessor and
    lessee, partner, etc.).;

3.  With the money from the sale of Sukuk certificates, the SPV passes
    offering to the Originator who makes the Shari'ah compliant asset
    purchase, lease, joint venture, etc. (again depending on the type of
    Sukuk);

4.  The SPV purchases assets (such as land, building, machinery) from
    the Originator;

5.  The sale proceeds are paid to the Originator/debtor as the price of
    the assets;

6.  The SPV, acting as a trustee on behalf of the Sukuk-holders,
    arranges to lease the assets back to the Originator who pays the
    Sukuk-holders the lease income;

7.  The Originator buys back the asset from the SPV at a nominal price
    on termination of the lease.

In this type of Sukuk, fixed interest of a conventional bond is replaced
by fixed lease income. Islamic economist Muhammad Akram Khan complains
that Sukuk are \"different from conventional finance in form and
formalities rather than substance\", and \"may even be more expensive\"
for the income provided than a conventional bond.

**Example**

> Structure of a \$100 million Sukuk issued by the Tabreed Financing
> Corporation in March 2004
> 
> An example of a Sukuk was a \$100 million security used to finance the
> construction and delivery of cooling plants in Abu Dhabi.
> 
> This Sukuk had an Istisna\'a and Ijara structure and was issued by the
> Tabreed Financing Corporation (or National Central Cooling Company PJSC)
> in March 2004.
> 
> Tabreed created an SPV (incorporated in the Cayman Islands), which sold
> certificates of Sukuk bonds.
> 
> With the proceeds of this sale it bought some partially completed
> central cooling plants (\"assets\" held in trust for the Sukuk).
> 
> The SPV leased the trust assets to the Tabreed, which made rental
> payments to the SPV, who passed the payments on to Sukuk holders.
> 
> When the Sukuk matured the trust assets were bought back from the SPV
> and the Sukuk holders got their principal back.
> 
> If some \"dissolution event\" (e.g. destruction of the leased property)
> had interrupted the payment of rent this would have prompted \"the
> continuation of payments in the form of repurchase price\". This reduced
> the risk structure of the Sukuk to that of conventional bonds, which
> permits the Sukuk to earn the same or close to the same credit ratings
> that conventional bonds earn. Consequently, they are able to be sold at
> an interest rates lower than they might otherwise.

## Challenges, criticism and controversy

### Challenges

According to a 2015 IMF report, the supply of Sukuk, **\"falls short of
demand\"** and, with some exceptions \"issuance takes place without a
comprehensive strategy to develop the domestic market\".

Sukuk are seen as well-suited for infrastructure financing because of
their risk-sharing property could also help fill financing gaps.
National authorities should, therefore, focus on developing the
necessary infrastructure, including promoting true securitization and
enhanced clarity over investors\' rights, and on stepping up regular
sovereign issuance to provide a benchmark for the private sector.
Increased sovereign issuance should be underpinned by sound public
financial management.

\"Key challenges\" to the Islamic finance industry as a
whole - including Sukuk - as of 2016 include (according to the State of
the Global Islamic Economy Report, 2015/16 and the IMF) are:

-   \"Low levels\" of awareness and understanding of Islamic finance
    products and services among the public, leading them to not buy;

-   A \"scarcity of Shari'ah-compliant monetary policy instruments\" and
    a lack of understanding of \"the monetary transmission mechanism\";

-   \"Complex financial products and corporate structures\" in some
    countries/jurisdictions because \"regulatory and supervisory
    frameworks\" do not \"address the unique risks of the industry\".
    Consequently, what is probably needed is \"increased regulatory
    clarity and harmonization, better cooperation between Islamic and
    conventional financial standard-setters, and further improvement of
    supervisory tools\";

-   \"Underdeveloped\" safety nets and resolution frameworks. In many
    places these probably shall include complete Islamic deposit
    insurance systems where premiums are invested in Shari'ah-compliant
    assets, or Shari'ah-compliant \"lenders-of-last-resort\";

-   Regulators who probably \"do not always have the capacity (or
    willingness) to ensure Shariah compliance.\"

#### Defaults

In three years during and following the Financial crisis of 2007--2008
(2008, 2009, 2010) -- there were at least 21 substantial Sukuk defaults,
and several large near defaults such as that of Dubai World saved by a
\$10 billion loan from Abu Dhabi, which is not bad compared with the
overall situation with toxic assets and the rest of the "conventional"
stock market.

As of 2009, there were a number of cases where the Sukuk had defaulted
or were in serious trouble. In May 2009, Investment Dar of Kuwait
defaulted on \$100 million Sukuk. Saad Group set up a committee to
restructure \$650 million Golden Belt 1 Sukuk. Standard & Poor\'s cut
the rating of that Sukuk \"owing to the non-availability of vital
information\". Another source (Mushtak Parker) claims there \"have been
a mere three or four\" Sukuk defaults -- East Cameron Sukuk in Louisiana
(a dispute relating to the profit-sharing arrangement of the
instrument); the Investment Dar sukuk (to do with \"cash flow problems
of the company and its subsidiaries, albeit it had a side dispute with
an investor, Blom Bank relating to the Shari'ah aspects of the
contracts\"); and the \"notorious\" Saad/Al Gosaibi Sukuk default
(\"more a market failure and an internecine dispute between the two
Saudi partners\").

#### Protection from Originator\'s default

At least one of the three major bond rating agencies for the US has
indicated doubts about the \"validity\" of transfer of assets from the
originator in Sukuk in the \"event of an insolvency of the originator\"
and attempts by creditors to seize the assets. \"Fitch has not reviewed
any transaction to date that would satisfy these requirements.\"

Underscoring Fitch\'s concern was the bankruptcy of East Cameron
Partners ECP which issued a multiple-award-winning Sukuk in 2006 but
filed for bankruptcy in October 2008, prompting a legal dispute about
the creditors\' right to \$167.67 million in Sukuk assets. (The final
decision of the case \"did not clearly resolve this issue\".) Another
major rating agency, S&P, downgraded the Sukuk of Dubai Islamic bank and
Sharjah Islamic Bank.

All these mishaps do not look impressive, though, on the background of
massive defaults and systemic abuses of the Western issuers, financial
institutions and rating agencies revealed in 2007-08 financial crisis,
especially if to take into account the youth of the Islamic financial
instruments.

According to Ibrahim Warde as of 2010: "What is till unclear is what
happens to Sukuk when they fail -- an issue that has not been tested in
court. In Malaysia, some Sukuk issues have junk status, and two other
Sukuk are already in default: the Easter Cameron Gas company in the
United States and Investment Dar of Kuwait. One of the unresolved
questions is whether Sukuk holders should stand in the line of creditors
or in the line of the owners of underlying assets\".

In reviewing cases of Sukuk defaults and bankruptcies, Muddassir
Siddiqui complained that: \"Through reading many cases that have so far
been litigated in courts around the world, I have found that in almost
all cases, the courts have struggled to reconcile the substance and form
of the contract. Was it a sale, lease, construction or partnership
contract or a financing arrangement between the parties?\".

#### Discrediting Shari'ah compliance

There have been at least two cases of companies seeking to restructure
their debt (i.e. pay creditors less), claiming that debt they had issued
was not in compliance with Shari'ah. In a 2009 court filing Investment
Dar, a Kuwaiti company claimed a transaction \"was taking deposits at
interest\".

In June 2017, an independent gas company (Dana Gas PJSC) declared two of
its Sukuk -- with a total worth of \$700 million -- no longer Shari'ah
compliant, and offered to exchange the Sukuk with a new one which would
pay \"less than half of the current profit rates and without a
conversion feature\". The Sukuk were issued in 2013 and due to mature on
30 October 2017. Dana refused to make payments on them, alleging that
\"changes in Islamic finance over recent years have made the bonds
unlawful in the UAE\". A month earlier, Dana had announced plans to
restructure the debt, stating it needed to \"focus on short to
medium-term cash preservation.\" Sukuk holders, represented by fund
manager BlackRock and Deutsche Bank, have been arguing against Dana in a
London High Court. In October 2017, a court in the emirate of Sharjah in
the UAE - where Dana had filed for protection - postponed a ruling on
the Sukuk. The issue has been called \"one of the greatest challenges
that the Islamic finance industry has faced in recent times\", but the
idea that the case is \"a blow to Islamic finance\" has also been
dismissed as \"poppycock\".

### Criticism and controversy

Sukuk have been criticized as evading the restrictions on riba,and
imitating conventional bonds.

In February 2008, the AAOIFI\'s board of scholars, led by Sheik Muhammad
Taqi Usmani, stated that as many as 85 percent of Sukuk sold to date may
not comply with all the precepts of Shari'ah. In a paper entitled
\"Sukuk and their Contemporary Applications\" released in November 2007,
Usmani identified the following three key structuring elements that
differentiate Sukuk from conventional bonds:

1.  Sukuk must represent ownership shares in assets or commercial or
    industrial enterprises that bring profits or revenues;

2.  Payments to Sukuk-holders should be the share of profits (after
    costs) of the assets or enterprise;

3.  The value payable to the Sukuk-holder on maturity should be the
    current market value of the assets or enterprise and not the
    principal originally invested.

Usmani stated that by complex mechanisms Sukuk had taken on the same
characteristics as conventional interest-bearing bonds, as they do not
return to investors more than a fixed percentage of the principal, based
on interest rates, while guaranteeing the return of investors\'
principal at maturity. Usmani\'s estimate that 85% of all Sukuk in
issuance were not Shariah-compliant was based on the existence of
guaranteed returns and/or repurchase obligations from the issuer - a
violation of Shari'ah.

Following Usmani\'s criticisms the global Sukuk market shrunk from
US\$50 billion in 2007 to approximately \$14.9 billion in 2008, although
how much of this was due to his criticisms or the Global Financial
Crisis is a matter of debate.

The Financial Times has described this as an \"ongoing\" debate over
\"form versus substance\" in Islamic finance, identifying two kinds of
Sukuk --

-   \"asset-backed\" Sukuk;

-   and the more numerous, less strict, allegedly non-compliant \"asset
    based\" sukuk.

In \"asset-backed\" Sukuk there is \"a true sale between the originator
and the special purpose vehicle (SPV) that issues the Sukuk and Sukuk
holders do not have recourse to the originator\". Asset prices may vary
over time.

In contrast, \"asset-based\" sukuk \"do\" give their holders recourse
to the originator, and so more closely resemble conventional bonds.

Other critics include non-orthodox economist Mahmoud El-Gamal, who has
complained that while providers of sukuk (and other Islamic finance
instruments) will often describe their \"distinguishing feature\" as the
\"prohibition of interest\", they will then proceed to report the
interest rate that Islamic instruments pay. For instance, Reuters\' 13
August 2002, coverage of Bahrain's \$800 million sukuk \... followed
their characterization of Islamic financial products as
\"interest-free\" with a report that those sukuk will pay \"4 percent
annual profit\".

He also complains that despite claims that Sukuk - unlike conventional
bonds - share the risk of their underlying asset and may increase or
decrease in value, in sukuk such as the Tabreed sukuk mentioned above,
steady payment of \"rent\" is written into the sukuk contract giving
them a risk structure \"essentially\" the same as conventional bonds.

Another observer, Salman Ali, found that many of the sukuk structures
\"do not conform to the Shari'ah\". According to Ali, while most of the
Sukuk make an effort to remain \"within Shari'ah bounds\", they
\"replicate conventional debt instruments\". They often combine more
than one contract, \"which individually may be Shari'ah-compliant\" but
when combined \"may defeat the objective of the Shari'ah\". Furthermore,
the sukuk rate of return is often \"tied\" to the LIBOR (London
interbank offered rate) or EURIBOR (euro interbank offered rate)
interest rate \"rather than to the underlying business\" that the sukuk
is financing. This makes the sukuk \"so similar to conventional debt
instruments that it is difficult to tell one from the other\". Ali
believes this may be why rating agencies such as Standard & Poors and
Moody\'s apply the same methodology for rating sukuk as for conventional
debt instruments.

In 2011, Safari conducted various statistical and econometrics tests to
check the argument that Sukuk securities are merely the same as
conventional bond. However, his results on the comparison of yield to
maturity of Sukuk and that of conventional bonds show that Sukuk
securities are different from conventional bonds. In response to this
argument, it was pointed out that yield to maturity reflects the
interplay of supply and demand which may be affected by a financial
product\'s packaging and target market rather than just the substance of
the product alone. In 2011 Goldman Sacks abandoned a \$2 billion sukuk
programme it had registered with the Irish Stock Exchange, after some
analysts stated that its sukuk \"might violate Islamic bans on interest
payments and monetary speculation\" (in 2014 it successfully drew about
\$1.5 billion in orders for the five-year sukuk).

## Countries using Sukuk

### Bahrain

Bahrain is a major issuer of sukuk.

### Brunei

Starting in 2006 the Brunei Government issued short-term Sukuk Al-Ijarah
securities. As of 2017 they have issued over B\$9.605 billion worth.

### Egypt

On 8 May 2013, Egyptian President Muhammad Morsi approved a law allowing
the government to issue Sukuk, however as of May 2013 the relevant
regulations have not been specified and this law has been replaced by
amending some new articles in the capital market law and its executive
regulations. As of 2016 the Egyptian government stated it would use
\"innovative financial tools for the implementation of government
projects\", such as Sukuk.

### Gambia

In 2007, Gambia replaced Sudan as one of the ten countries issuing
Sukuk. It has one of the lowest amount of Sukuk issuance, with \$12.6
mil as of 2008.

### Indonesia

According to islamicfinance.com, at end-2013 outstanding stock in
Indonesia\'s Sukuk market was US\$12.3 billion, with growth coming
driven from the government sector.

### Iran

Although the first use of Islamic financial instruments in Iran goes
back to 1994 with the issuance of Musharakah Sukuk by Tehran
Municipality to finance Navab project, the enactment of Iran securities
market law, and new instruments and financial institutions development
law was done respectively in 2005 and 2010 to pave the way for the
appliance of such instruments to develop financial system of the
country. The first Ijarah Sukuk was issued in Iranian Capital Market in
January 2011 for financing Mahan Air company with the value of 291,500
million Rials.

### Malaysia

More than half of Sukuk issued worldwide are in Malaysian Ringgit, with
the United States dollar coming second. Malaysia is one of the few
countries that makes it mandatory for Sukuk and other debt papers to be
rated. RAM Rating Services Bhd CEO Foo Su Yin says the total issuance of
Sukuk corporate bonds in 2012 was RM 71.7 billion while conventional
bonds totalled RM48.3 billion. As at 2011, Malaysia was the highest
global Sukuk issuer by issuing 69 percent of world\'s total issuances.

### Kazakhstan

In June 2012, Kazakhstan finalized its debut Sukuk which will be issued
by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan (DBK) in the Malaysian market. The
DBK, which is 100% owned by the government of Kazakhstan, is working
with HSBC and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) to manage the
ringgit-denominated issuance which is effectively a quasi-sovereign
offering. The issuance will be listed on the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange,
which has developed the infrastructure to list Islamic financial
products such as Ijara and Musharaka Sukuk and investment funds.

### Kuwait

### Pakistan

Pakistan issued a Sukuk of \$1 billion to fund a trade deficit.

### Qatar

Qatar authorities and government related companies are looking into
funding for its infrastructure projects by issuing Sukuk. In 2011 Qatar
issued 11 percent of global Sukuk.

### Saudi Arabia

Saudi Aramco, A Saudi Arabian national petroleum and natural gas
company, issued its first ever Sukuk on 6 April 2017. Raising
approximately 11.25bn Riyals (\$3bn), the move was prompted as a
response to the low oil prices.

Later in the same month, the Saudi government raised US\$9 billion in
Sukuk. Half were five-year Sukuk with 100 basis point swap spread and
the other half had a ten-year tenor with 140 basis point spread. On
September 2017, the government sold further domestic Sukuk worth 7
billion riyals (US\$1.9 billion) and another 4.77 billion riyals
(US\$1.27 billion) were sold in December. These combined five-year
Sukuks priced at 2.75%, seven-year ones at 3.25%, and a ten-year tranche
at 3.45%.

### Singapore

Singapore was the first non-Muslim majority country to issue a Sovereign
Sukuk in 2009. Called the MAS Sukuk domestically, it is issued via a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Monetary Authority of Singapore --
Singapore Sukuk Pte Ltd. The Singapore MAS Sukuk is treated similarly to
the conventional Singapore Government Securities (\"SGS\") in aspects
such as compliance with liquidity requirements.

Since then there have been several Sukuk issuances in Singapore by local
and foreign issuers. Singapore City Development Limited issued the first
Ijara Sukuk in 2009, and Khazanah Shd Bhd issued a SGD1.5 billion Sukuk
in 2010 to finance its acquisition of parkway holdings. In 2013, there
were 2 new Sukuk Programmes arranged for Singapore listed companies --
Swiber Holdings & Vallianz Holdings, with the former issuing a SGD150
million 5-year sukuk in Aug 2013.

### Somalia

The Somalia Stock Exchange (SSE) is the national bourse of Somalia. In
August 2012, the SSE signed a Memorandum of Understanding to assist it
in technical development. The agreement includes identifying appropriate
expertise and support. Shari'ah compliant Sukuk bonds and Halal equities
are also envisioned as part of the deal as the nascent stock market
develops.

### Turkey

Turkey issued its debut Sukuk in October 2012. The October 2012 issuance
was a double issuance, with one being in US Dollars (issued on 10
October 2012 for \$1.5B), and one being in Turkish Lira (issued on 2
October 2012 for 1.62LRY). According to data from Sukuk.com, the US
Dollars issuance was oversubscribed and was initially planned to be for
\$1 billion, but because of strong demand from the Middle East it was
increased to \$1.5 billion.

Turkey returned to the Sukuk market in October 2013 with a \$1.25B
issuance.

### United Arab Emirates

As of January 2015, NASDAQ Dubai has listed 18 Sukuk valued at a total
\$24 billion. The latest of these is Fly Dubai. The UAE has also
attracted Western investment in the form of GE, which sold a 5-year,
\$500 million Sukuk in 2009, and investment banker Goldman Sachs, which
became first conventional U.S. bank to issue Sukuk in 2014.

### United Kingdom

On 25 June 2014, HM Treasury became the first country outside of the
Islamic world to issue a Sukuk. This £200 million issue was 11.5 times
oversubscribed and was priced at the same level as the equivalent UK
Gilts (UK government bonds) at 2.036% pa. The Sukuk was linked to the
rental income of UK government property.

### Hong Kong

Hong Kong has issued two sovereign Sukuk as of middle of 2015. It issued
its first issuance consisting of a 5-year \$1 billion Ijarah Sukuk in
September 2014 offering a profit rate of 2.005%. It issued its second
sovereign Sukuk in June 2015 also for \$1 billion with a 5-year maturity
which used an innovative Wakalah structure offering a profit rate of
1.894%.

## Sources:

1.  The UK based educational project and exhibition exploring the Muslim
    contributions to building the foundations of Modern Civilisation,
    called \"1001 Inventions: Discover the Muslim Heritage in Our
    World\", also confirmed that the word \"cheque\" comes from
    \"sakk\".

2.  an exception is the \"zero coupon\" bond or sukuk where there is no
    payout or coupon but the value of the bond/sukuk increases until
    maturity.

3.  AAOIFI Standard 17, quoted in\[1\] Citations

4.  Khan, What Is Wrong with Islamic Economics?, 2013: p.251

5.  Visser, Hans. 2009. Islamic finance: Principles and practice.
    Cheltenham, UK and Northampton MA, Edward Elgar. p.63

6.  Hayat, Usman (11 April 2010). \"Islamic finance\'s sukuk
    explained\". www.ft.com. Retrieved 29 March 2017.

7.  Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:210

8.  Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:214

9.  State of the Global Islamic Economy Report 2015/16 (PDF). Thomson
    Reuters & Dinar Standard. pp. 54--55. Retrieved 19 March 2017.

10. N. J. Adam and A. Thomas, \"Islamic fixed-income securities: sukuk\"
    in S. Jaffar (ed), Islamic Asset Management: Forming the Future for
    Shari'a-Compliant Investment Strategies (London: Euromoney Books,
    2004), p.73, cited in Saeed, A.; Salah, O. (2014) \[2013\].
    \"Development of Sukuk: Pragmatic and Idealist Approaches to Sukuk
    Structures\" (PDF). Journal of International Banking Law and
    Regulation: 45--6.

11. A. Thomas, \"What are Sukuk?\" \[2003\] AJIF.org LLC, cited in
    Saeed, A.; Salah, O. (2014) \[2013\]. \"Development of Sukuk:
    Pragmatic and Idealist Approaches to Sukuk Structures\" (PDF).
    Journal of International Banking Law and Regulation: 45--6.

12. M. A. Khan, Islamic Economics and Finance: A Glossary (Routledge:
    London, 2003), p.163, cited in Saeed, A.; Salah, O. (2014) \[2013\].
    \"Development of Sukuk: Pragmatic and Idealist Approaches to Sukuk
    Structures\" (PDF). Journal of International Banking Law and
    Regulation: 45--6.

13. Paldi, Camille (19 October 2014). \"History of Sukuk\". FAAIF. p. 2.

14. Glubb, John Bagot (1988), A Short History of the Arab Peoples,
    Dorset Press, p. 105, ISBN 978-0-88029-226-9, OCLC 603697876

15. Subhi Y. Labib (1969), \"Capitalism in Medieval Islam\", The Journal
    of Economic History 29 (1), pp. 79--96 \[92--3\].

16. G. W. Heck, Charlemagne, Muhammad, and the Arab roots of capitalism
    (Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 2006), p.217--218

17. A. L. Udovitch, \"Bankers without Banks: Commerce, Banking, and
    Society in the Islamic World of the Middle Ages\" in Centre for
    Medieval and Renaissance Studies, UCLA (ed), The Dawn of Modern
    Banking (New Haven & London: Yale University Press, 1979),
    p.268--274

18. A. L. Udovitch, \"Trade\" in J. R. Strayer (ed), The Dictionary of
    the Middle Ages, Volume 12 (New York: Charles Scribner's Sons,
    1989), p.105--108.

19. See 1001 Inventions at http://www.1001inventions.com \[Accessed 27
    October 2013\]; P. Vallely, \"How Islamic inventors changed the
    world\" The Independent, 11 March 2006.cited in Saeed, A.; Salah, O.
    (2014) \[2013\]. \"Development of Sukuk: Pragmatic and Idealist
    Approaches to Sukuk Structures\" (PDF). Journal of International
    Banking Law and Regulation: 45--6.

20. P. Vallely, \"How Islamic inventors changed the world\" The
    Independent, 11 March 2006 at
    https://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/how-islamic-inventors-changed-the-world-469452.html
    \[Accessed 27 October 2013\], cited in Saeed, A.; Salah, O. (2014)
    \[2013\]. \"Development of Sukuk: Pragmatic and Idealist Approaches
    to Sukuk Structures\" (PDF). Journal of International Banking Law
    and Regulation: 45--6.

21. International Islamic Financial Market, 2012. Sukuk report: A
    comprehensive study of the global sukuk market,
    http://iifm.net/media/pdf/iifm_suku_report_2.pdf

22. Paldi, Camille (19 October 2014). \"History of Sukuk\". FAAIF. p.
    17.

23. Saeed, Salah, \"Development of Sukuk\", 2013:

24. Khan, What Is Wrong with Islamic Economics?, 2013: p.306-7

25. Paldi, Camille (19 October 2014). \"History of Sukuk\". FAAIF. p. 6.

26. Khan, What Is Wrong with Islamic Economics?, 2013: p.307

27. \"Islamic Finance: Opportunities, Challenges, and Policy Options\",
    IMF, April 2015, p.14

28. Sukuk Market Struggles To Find Sources Of Growth\| Forbes\| 21
    September 2016

29. Global sukuk issuance expected to be lower this year, Ganeshwaran
    Kana Jakarta Post, 7 March 2017

30. \"Fed clouds 2017 global sukuk sales outlook for top arranger\".
    www.thestar.com.my. The Star Online. 6 January 2017. Retrieved 13
    March 2017.

31. \"Sukuk Index\" (PDF). yieldbook.com. 31 December 2016. Retrieved 16
    March 2017.

32. Khan, Islamic Banking in Pakistan, 2015: p.108

33. Trades executed in the secondary market, Liquidity Management Centre

34. \"Sukuk Market Summary and Secondary Market Prices -- Sukuk.com is
    the Home of the Sukuk Industry\". Sukuk.com is the Home of the Sukuk
    Industry. Retrieved 15 March 2017.

35. Tariq, Ali Arsalan (September 2004). MANAGING FINANCIAL RISKS OF
    SUKUK STRUCTURES (PDF). Loughborough University, UK. p. 9.

36. \"Sukuk. An Introduction to the Underlying Principles and
    Structure\" (PDF). June 2006. p. 7.

37. \"Zero-Coupon Nontradable Sukuk\". Retrieved 14 March 2017.

38. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:207-13

39. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:208

40. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:212-3

41. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:211-2

42. Mohammed, Naveed (26 July 2014). \"Five Important Differences
    Between Sukuk and Traditional Bonds\". Retrieved 14 March 2017.

43. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:211

44. Paldi, Camille (19 October 2014). \"History of Sukuk\". FAAIF. p. 4.

45. Usmani, Sukuk and their Contemporary Applications, 2007:3--4

46. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:214-5

47. Definition in paragraph 2 of page 307 of Shariah Standards for
    Financial Institutions 2008, published by Accounting and Auditing
    Organisation for Islamic Financial Institutions, cited in \"AAOIFI
    Statement on Sukuk and its implications\". Norton Rose Fulbright \|
    Global law firm. September 2008. Retrieved 13 March 2017.

48. al-Amine, Muhammad al-Bashir Muhammad (2009). Global Sukūk and
    Islamic Securitization Market: Financial Engineering and Product
    Innovation. BRILL. pp. 57--8. ISBN 9789004207448.

49. \"Sukuk. An Introduction to the Underlying Principles and
    Structure\" (PDF). June 2006. p. 5. Retrieved 16 March 2017.

50. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:220

51. Khan, Islamic Banking in Pakistan, 2015: p.106

52. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:221-2

53. \"Central Bank of Bahrain -- CBB Sukuk Al-Salam Securities
    Subscribed\". www.cbb.gov.bh. 20 June 2016. Retrieved 16 March 2017.

54. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:225

55. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:224

56. Abdul Mazid, Muhammad (2 April 2015). \"Sukuk in the South Asian
    stock market\". Retrieved 16 March 2017.

57. \"Definition of sukuk (Islamic bonds)\". ft.com/lexicon. Retrieved
    11 March 2017.

58. Ercanbrack, Jonathan (2015). The Transformation of Islamic Law in
    Global Financial Markets. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. p.
    138. ISBN 9781107061507.

59. Abdul RAHMAN, Z.A. (12 January 2011), \"SUKUK, SPV AND BORROWING
    WITH COLLATERAL??\", ISLAMIC LAW OF FINANCE, url link does not work,
    blacklisted by wikipedia Missing or empty \|url= (help)

60. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:217

61. Balala, Mahah-Hanaan. 2011. Islamic finance and law. London and New
    York: I.B. Tauris. p.145

62. Khan, What Is Wrong with Islamic Economics?, 2013: p.51-2

63. El-Gamal, Islamic Finance, 2006: p.6-7

64. Paldi, Camille (18 June 2015). \"Tabreed Sukuk\". Retrieved 14
    March 2017.

65. \"Islamic Finance: Opportunities, Challenges, and Policy Options\",
    IMF, April 2015, p.6-7

66. \"What customers want; Customer insights to inform growth strategies
    of Islamic banks in the Middle East\", PwC, October 2014

67. State of the Global Islamic Economy Report, 2015/16:70

68. \"Shocking: 21 defaulted sukuk cases in the last 20 months!\".
    Business Islamica Magazine: 24--6. 2011. SSRN 1712056.

69. Khan, Islamic Banking in Pakistan, 2015: p.109

70. Warde, I. (2011). \"\'Ibrahim Warde presentation\' Panel on Islamic
    Finance: Bankruptcy, Financial Distress and Debt Restructuring,
    Islamic Finance workshop\". Harvard Law School. Retrieved 14
    June 2017.

71. MacFarlane, Isla. 2009. Sukuk slide. Islamic Business and Finance,
    43 (June), p.24 http://cpifinancial.net

72. Parker, Mushtak (20 June 2017). \"Lessons from Dana Gas \'Sukuk\'
    debacle\". New Strait Times. Retrieved 9 November 2017.

73. Bond issuances set to continue in Sharjah this year\| Oxford
    Business Group \|29 March 2017

74. Warde, Ibrahim. 2000, 2010. Islamic finance in the global economy,
    Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press. p.152

75. Siddiqui, Muddassir (26 September 2011). \"Panel on Islamic Finance:
    Bankruptcy, Financial Distress and Debt Restructuring, Harvard Law
    School, Muddassir Siddiqui comments\". Retrieved 14 June 2017.

76. Wilson, Rodney (February 2013). \"Sukuk Defaults: Islamic Debt
    Investors Need Better Data\". World Economics. Retrieved 6
    August 2015.

77. Sharif, Arif (15 June 2017). \"Why Everyone\'s Talking About Dana
    Gas\'s Sukuk\". Bloomberg Markets. Retrieved 9 November 2017.

78. \"UAE court postpones judgment at Dana Gas sukuk hearing --
    source\". Reuters. 4 October 2017. Retrieved 9 November 2017.

79. Dewar, John; Hussain, Munib (18 September 2017). \"ISLAMIC FINANCE:
    CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES\". Expert Guides. Retrieved 9
    November 2017.

80. Warde, Ibrahim. 2000, 2010. Islamic finance in the global economy,
    Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press. p.151

81. Ali, Salman S. 2008. Islamic capital market: Current State and
    developmental challenges. Introduction of Islamic capital markets:
    Products, regulation and development, ed. Salman Syed Ali, p.9,
    Jeddah, Islamic Research and Training Institute, Islamic Development
    Bank.

82. Usmani, Sukuk and their Contemporary Applications, 2007:4

83. El-Gamal, Islamic Finance, 2006: p.6

84. Ali, Salman S. 2008. Islamic capital market: Current State and
    developmental challenges. Introduction of Islamic capital markets:
    Products, regulation and development, ed. Salman Syed Ali, pp.10,
    Jeddah, Islamic Research and Training Institute, Islamic Development
    Bank.

85. Foster, John (11 December 2009). \"BBC News -- How Sharia-compliant
    is Islamic banking?\". news.bbc.co.uk. Retrieved 15 March 2017.

86. Chilton, John B. (22 March 2008). \"80% of Islamic bonds declared
    unIslamic\". The Emirates Economist. Retrieved 15 March 2017.

87. Usmani, Sukuk and their Contemporary Applications, 2007:

88. Frederik Richter (28 January 2009). \"Gulf sukuk market revival seen
    unlikely in 2009\". Reuters.

89. Jason Benham (29 October 2008). \"Islamic bond market \"wrecked\" by
    critical remarks\". Arabian Business.

90. Daliah Merzaban (15 April 2009). \"Scholar critique spurs ijara
    Islamic bond\". Reuters.

91. El-Gamal, Islamic Finance, 2006: p.2

92. Safari, Meysam (2011), \"Are Sukuk Securities the Same as
    Conventional Bonds?\", Proceedings of Foundation of Islamic Finance
    Series, Second Conference, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 8--10 March 2011,
    Accessible at https://ssrn.com/abstract=1783551

93. Kayali, Rakaan (2015), \"Sukuk on Trial\", Practical Islamic
    Finance, 19 May 2015, Accessible at
    https://foundationsforislamiceconomics.wordpress.com/2015/05/19/sukuk-on-trial/

94. \"UPDATE 1-Goldman Sachs gets strong demand for landmark sukuk
    issue\". Reuters. 16 September 2017. Retrieved 24 March 2017.

95. \"Brunei Darussalam April 2017\". Sukuk.com. Retrieved 19
    March 2017.

96. El-Din, Mohamed Alaa (24 February 2016). \"Government adopts new
    financial instruments to implement national projects, including
    Sukuk\". Daily News Egypt. Retrieved 19 March 2017.

97. \"The Sukuk Market in Indonesia\". islamicfinance.com. 13
    January 2015. Retrieved 19 March 2017.

98. sukuk-differences/ijarahsukuk

99. Kalhor, Navid (3 March 2017). \"Iran\'s private sector having hard
    time financing expansion\". Al Monitor. Retrieved 10 April 2017.

100. \"Malaysia to maintain stronghold in global sukuk market, says
     RAM\", The Saun Daily, Malaysia, 12 February 2013

101. \"Asian demand to drive Qatar sukuk\". Investvine.com. 9
     January 2013. Retrieved 10 January 2013.

102. \"Kazakhstan Finalizing its DBK Sukuk Introduction\". The Gazette
     of Central Asia. Satrapia. 11 June 2012. Retrieved 20 July 2012.

103. Pakistan issues \$1b five-year sukuk bonds to fill trade gap \| M.
     Aftab\| Khaleej Times \|8 October 2016

104. \"Saudi Arabia Raises \$9 Billion with Inaugural Islamic Bond\".
     Bloomberg. 12 April 2017.

105. \"Saudi Arabia Raises \$1.9 Billion From Islamic Bond\". Bloomberg.
     18 September 2017.

106. \"Saudi Arabia re-taps 10bn riyal October domestic sukuk issue\".
     Abu Dhabi: The National. 24 December 2017.

107. \"Diplomat to start Somalia\'s first stock market\". Reuters. 8
     August 2012. Retrieved 5 December 2013.

108. Minney, Tom (14 May 2014). \"Nairobi Securities Exchange plans to
     offer 38% of shares in June IPO\". AfricanCapitalMarketsNews.com.
     Retrieved 19 May 2014.

109. Delay in UK Sukuk may make it more attractive for GCC and South
     East Asian Investors\| Naveed Mohammed \|sukuk.com \|18 April 2014

110. Flydubai's \$500m sukuk listed on Nasdaq Dubai \|Khaleej Times \|16
     January 2015

111. Uppal, Rachna; Carvalho, Stanley (19 November 2009). \"UPDATE
     1-US\' GE Capital raises \$500 mln in debut Islamic bond\".
     Reuters. Retrieved 13 March 2017.

112. Narayanan, Archana (16 September 2014). \"UPDATE 1-Goldman Sachs
     gets strong demand for landmark sukuk issue\". Reuters. Retrieved
     13 March 2017.

113. Jamaldeen, Islamic Finance For Dummies, 2012:207

114. Government issues first Islamic bond Britain becomes the first
     country outside the Islamic world to issue sovereign Sukuk.\|
     gov.uk HM Treasury \|25 June 2014

115. Mohammed, Naveed (11 September 2014). \"Hong Kong Sukuk Issuance of
     2014\". Sukuk.

116. Mohammed, Naveed (3 June 2015). \"Hong Kong Sukuk Issuance of
     2015\". Sukuk.

117. Books, documents, journal articles

118. el-Gamal, Mahmoud A. (2006). Islamic Finance : Law, Economics, and
     Practice (PDF). New York, NY: Cambridge. ISBN 9780521864145.

119. Jamaldeen, Faleel (2012). Islamic Finance For Dummies. John Wiley &
     Sons. ISBN 9781118233900.

120. Khan, Feisal (22 December 2015). Islamic Banking in Pakistan:
     Shariah-Compliant Finance and the Quest to Make Pakistan More
     Islamic. Routledge. ISBN 9781317366539. Retrieved 9 February 2017.

121. Khan, Muhammad Akram (2013). What Is Wrong with Islamic Economics?:
     Analysing the Present State and Future Agenda. Edward Elgar
     Publishing. ISBN 9781782544159. Retrieved 26 March 2015.

122. Saeed, A.; Salah, O. (2014) \[2013\]. \"Development of Sukuk:
     Pragmatic and Idealist Approaches to Sukuk Structures\" (PDF).
     Journal of International Banking Law and Regulation (1): 41--52.
     Retrieved 18 March 2017.

123. State of the Global Islamic Economy Report 2015/16 (PDF). Thomson
     Reuters & Dinar Standard. Retrieved 19 March 2017.

124. Usmani, Muhammed Taqi (November 2007). Sukuk and their Contemporary
     Applications. AAOIFI.

125. vte

126. Islamic banking and finance

127. vte

128. Islam topics

129. Categories: Islamic bankingSharia legal terminologyIslamic banking
     and finance terminologyBonds (finance)

```
"Sukuk" (Arabic: صكوك‎ ṣukūk, plural of صك ṣakk,
\"legal instrument, deed, cheque\") is the Arabic name for financial
certificates, also commonly referred to as \"sharia compliant\" bonds.
Sukuk are defined by the AAOIFI (Accounting and Auditing Organization
for Islamic Financial Institutions) as \"securities of equal
denomination representing individual ownership interests in a portfolio
of eligible existing or future assets.\"

In the classical period of Islam, Sakk (sukuk) meant any document
representing a contract or conveyance of rights, obligations or monies
done in conformity with the Shari'ah. According to Camille Paldi, the
first sukuk transaction took place in Damascus in its Great Mosque in the
7th century AD. Muslim traders are known to have used the cheque or ṣakk
system since the time of Harun al-Rashid (9th century) of the Abbasid
Caliphate.

The modern Western word \"cheque\" appears to have been derived
from \"sakk\" (singular of sukuk), which during the Middle Ages referred
to a written agreement \"to pay for goods when they were delivered\" and
was used to \"avoid money having to be transported across dangerous terrain\".

Sukuk were developed as an alternative to conventional bonds which are not
considered permissible by many Muslims as they pay interest and may
finance businesses involved in non-Sharia'ah-compliant activities
(gambling, alcohol, pork, etc.). Sukuk is popularly known as an Islamic
or Shari'ah compliant 'Bond' whilst in fact, it is an asset-backed trust
certificate.

In its simplest form Sukuk is a certificate evidencing ownership of an asset
or its usufruct and was developed by Shari'ah experts for the express purpose
of answering the financial world's demand for a Shari'ah compliant debt
instrument. The development of Sukuk was in response to Shari'ah prohibition
on earning returns from loan contracts which returns are based on interest.
Conventional bonds and other derivative instruments that rely on profiting
holders by providing returns based on interest are therefore unavailable to
Muslims who wish to invest in Shari'ah compliant investments.
```
